---
layout: project
title: All-In-One CNC
picture: /assets/images/CNC1.jpg
description: "For my mechanical engineering senior capstone project at Union College I elected to design and construct a new type of CNC machine. I found that, in spite of increased popularity of CNC technologies, and in spite of the similarities between types of CNC machines, the market still lacked an affordable machine that could accomplish multiple tasks. My hope was to fill that gap."
---

## Summary
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The application of CNC (Computer Numerical Control) technologies in both industry and homes has exploded in recent years[^1]. Today, thousands of individuals own 3D printers and many own CNC routers. There are very few, however, that own both. CNC routers, 3D printers, and other CNC machines like laser cutters, all function in essentially the same way. Each of these is designed to move a tool in 3D space, and it is the tool that really makes these machines different. Even so, in order to be capable of both 3D printing and CNC routing, individuals must purchase two separate machines, forcing most to choose one or the other due to the required investment of both money and space. For this project, I have designed and constructed a single machine configurable for 3D printing, routing, and many other light-duty CNC applications, in hopes of making more CNC functions accessible to hobbyists and makers. My design is very modular and can be easily scaled up or down to suit an individual’s needs, it costs only $350, and is built from materials that are readily available online.

## Introduction
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Rapid prototyping has become nearly ubiquitous in industry, and there are many machines designed for this purpose. Figure 1 depicts a standard 3D printer, its primary axes marked in red. Figure 2 depicts a CNC (Computer Numerical Control) router. These are both examples of CNC machines[^2] and they share an important similarity. Both are designed to move a tool in three- dimensional space, and each does so using a 3-axis system. There are, however, some significant differences in how these tend to be designed. 3D printers are designed to be tall. In my experience, they are often compared with one another based on “maximum build volume,” the maximum dimensions of an object it can print, of which the Z axis is a significant component. The printer seen in Figure 1, for example, has a maximum Z position of a bit less than 9 inches above the build plate[^3], the platform on which an object is printed. The CNC router, on the other hand, is primarily used to carve sheets of wood (usually up to about 0.75” thick), so router designs trade off height for rigidity[^4]. Finally, 3D printers typically decouple the Y axis from the X and Z axes in order to minimize the weight that the motor has to carry. On CNC routers, the tool is moved along all three axes and the routed part remains stationary to avoid issues with stability and accuracy.


[^1]: “Computer Numerical Control (CNC) Machine Market Size & Share Report By Type (Lathe, Milling, Laser, Grinding, Welding, Winding), By End Use (Industrial, Power & Energy, Automotive, Aerospace & Defense), And Segment Forecasts, 2018 – 2025.” Grand View Research, Jan 2018.
[^2]: Rogers, Tony. “Everything You Need To Know About CNC Machines.” Everything You Need To Know About CNC Machines, Creative Mechanisms, 20 May 2015, www.creativemechanisms.com/blog/everything-you-need-to-know-about-cnc-machines.
[^3]: Rogers, Tony. “Everything You Need To Know About CNC Machines.” Everything You Need To Know About CNC Machines, Creative Mechanisms, 20 May 2015, www.creativemechanisms.com/blog/everything-you-need-to-know-about-cnc-machines.
[^4]: “Do It Yourself CNC Router: Design Considerations, the Gantry.” Do It Yourself CNC Router: Design Considerations, the Gantry, Router Source, www.cncroutersource.com/do-it-yourself-CNC-router.html.
